Okay, and you were wounded now. When was this, D
plus 1? I was wounded about 7 o'clock on D plus 1,
about a mile out of St. Mary Glees. And I was
actually leading a patrol because we didn't have
anybody else to lead it. And I had 13 soldiers, and
this included one sergeant and one lieutenant.
And we had gone about 100 yards when I felt this
bullet pass by and I yelled to the ditch and as I
moved toward the ditch I got hit in the left
forehead. Oh, you're lucky. Yeah, lucky. I sure
was. And I was put in an aid station by this sergeant
that was with me.
And the next day transferred to an aid station in
the field out in the open ground. that afternoon,
given a blood transfusion and placed on a hospital
ship out in the harbor there about five miles from
here. Do you remember the name of the ship? No,
never did know really. I was pretty well sedated
when they carried me out. And they carried me back
to England and landed in Southampton and took me up
to the Midlands place. I've forgotten now, right
out of Market Harbor. I can't even think of the name
of this place. But anyhow, they had about 25
hospitals in this area. How long did it take you to
get from the point where you were wounded to a
regular hospital? I think five days. Five days? I
spent a night in their barn down there, the first
night, all day and all night. And they moved me out
from the barn early the next morning to this field
place where they had all these blood bottles
hanging up. They gave me some transfusion. Put me
in a truck and carried me to the beach, and I was in a
beach hospital there for about 12 hours. And then
they put me on one of these landing crafts, carried
me out and pulled us up in baskets from the landing
craft up
the side. We landed back in England, and they
operated on me the next morning.
I had considerable damage done, and I had two young
doctors, incidentally. one from Philadelphia
and one from Rochester.
But they made an examination and told me what they
thought they had to do, but they had to have my
permission first. So I gave permission and they
started operating on me the next morning at 6
o'clock and operated until about 1 that
afternoon. Could you tell me what they had to do?
Yes. Well, this bone was... The bullet entered
here and barely missed my eye and went in here and
came out here. It was coming this direction. Just a
rifle bullet? Rifle bullet, sniper in a tree, and
they caught him incidentally.
But it shattered all the bone in my nose and broke
two pieces off of this bone here and broke this bone
right here, broke this bone across here, came out
about here. And when it did all this, it was so close
to my eye that it detached the retina.
And that's what they had spent so much time
operating on. They tried to, they wanted to
replace it if they could. They didn't know for sure
whether they could or not. And then they had to take
scrapings out of these cheekbones. and pull it
back up into the nose and squeeze it together with a
little capsule of Vaseline, warm Vaseline, and
hope that it grew back together. And it did. It did a
marvelous job. Yeah, it sure did. And I would say
that you feel that you got rid of the best of all
possible medical care. Best. In fact, after I got
out of the hospital, I was in the hospital 42 days.
They operated about 10 different times because
they A bunch of things to do. Cut some of these bones
off that were shattered. And I had to rebuild this
thing and scrape it because little, what do you
call it, spurs grew on this soft bone. And I had to
cut them off every day. Because if they get growing
too much, you can't bury it, of course. But I came
out real well. In fact, they didn't even make any
plastic surgery on me. They just replaced it and
sewed it up. Sure did. And unless you look closely,
you can't tell. I have no difficulty breathing, a
little. This eye has about 20-90 vision. This one
has 20-40.
And I have a traumatic cataract that's been there
since the day I got hit, but it hadn't grown any. I
have no cataract in this eye. So you spent, what, 42
days? 42 days in the hospital. That's counting the
time I was on the field, too. From the time I got
wounded until I got out was 42 days. Then what?
Excuse me. Then what? I rejoined the division and
the Ridgeway asked me to go with him and 12 other
officers to form the cadre for the 18th Airborne
Corps. The division had been pulled back to
England from France after the initial stages of
this thing. I think he stayed over about 30 days
because they wanted to mount this hollering
operation for the airborne divisions. So they
pulled him back and they made this corps. And I went
with General Ridgway and these officers to form
the bases for the 18th Airborne Corps. The rest of
the troops were brought over from the United
States. They had been the 18th Armored Division.
So we brought them over and took all of these people
that came over from this armored division and
tried to train them in parachute operations.
These were tankers, huh? Yeah, these were
tankers. And this took a lot of time. We didn't have
much time to loot because this was in late July and
they had this operation in Holland set up in
September. So we got the operation all set and all
the planes and everything, supplies, everything
ready to go. And then General Einhard decided that
there was no particular need to send both a British
and American Corps, and this particular time
you're going to let the British Corps take
responsibility for the operation. So we sent two
American divisions and a British division, and
the British actually operated there, and they
caught, well they had two up there. We came out of it
and they brought the troops back then to the area
around Reims and Epperday. Now did you go into
Holland? No, I didn't go to Holland. I stayed in
England. And then we came from England to France in
early November. See, they mounted this operation
in September. We came in early November and moved
into the Reims. Where did you land in France? Well,
we flew from an airport in England, just plain and
time, C-47, and landed in Paris, La Borgia Field.
They weren't in very good shape. They'd already
been bombed. But we landed there and took jeeps
from there up to Reims. We set up headquarters in
Reims.
Then we, from Reims in the Epernay area, we got
these parachute people and glider people back
from Holland. And they lost a lot of people. We had
to resupply and put in new troops, brought in a lot
of new officers fresh from the United States,
second, first lieutenant, mostly. A lot of them
were just out of West Point, brand new college
graduates. We then were called into this
operation on the 19th of December, I guess. On the
19th of December, we were just called, because we
were the only troops not already committed They
just loaded us in trucks and carried us up to the
Ardennes and put us out. We had two divisions and
brought another division from England across,
which was the 13th Airborne. Never been committed
yet. Anywhere, anytime. So we slugged it out up
there as ground troops, really. And we came back to
this area and moved to the Rhine River area. where
we mounted an airborne operation across the Rhine
River at Zweifel.
We sent two American and one British civilians
across the river by air. And part of the unit, that
is, we didn't send any gliders much or few, but part
of our unit didn't go by air. went in floats and
little motorboats.
Actually, they were rafts with motors on them. And
we then transferred from there down to the central
part of the country. They got in trouble down in the
river, so they sent us down into the river. This was
Bradley's order. Converted us down there. And we
slugged it out through, all through Bonn,
Dillenburg, and oh,
I can't think. I know we were in this little town.
I'm trying to think of the day we heard that Mr.
Roosevelt died. I can't even think of the name of
his big cabin center there. And then we swung
around to the left, and we had this thing pretty
well under control. And they called us back to get
ready to cross the Elbe River. We crossed the Elbe
River at Beckleid.
We crossed not by airborne. We did by foot troop.
All of our paratroopers and gliders were just used
as foot soldiers. And the engineers threw up a
bridge at Beckleid, and the armor division came
across the next day. We got as far as Lubbock last,
which was, I guess, we figured
we'd be in Berlin in another six or seven days if
they'd leave us alone. And of course Patton was on
his way there too, but the war ended. So we just sat
there.
And then soon after about About a week after the war
was over, they sent me back with a group of five to
Ephrony to get ready to take all these troops back
to Red Goat Pacific to get into the invasion of
Japan. I stayed with the division, with the Corps
then until about the 20th of June, I guess, and they
sent me with a group of 52 Texans who had been
wounded two or three times. to bring them back to
the United States. And I left there I guess about
maybe the 25th of June. We landed in New York and
came on to Texas, landed in Fort Sam Houston on the
3rd of July. I got these 52 Texans that I brought
back. But we had a whole train load of them, a whole
ship load of them really that's on the ship called
Champlain, which was a World War I German plane, I
mean, ship. And we dropped off some of them in Ohio
and Kentucky and all around. There was no train
coming down. No train coming down from Fort Dix.
So then they asked me if I wanted to get out of the
service or if I wanted to stay, and I was ready to get
out, so I said I'm ready, and they let me out. And I
came to work in Texas, and then on the first of
September, even though I was going to terminally
leave until the fourth of November. One last
wartime question. What do you consider was the
toughest combat that you went through or the
hardest going in Europe? What was the roughest
time? As far as the divisions concerned, me. You
personally. Well, of course I thought— Aside from
being wounded. Yeah, I wasn't there long enough. I
was just there about 24, 26, 28. I was just there
about 30 hours before I got wounded. No, I'd say the
Ardennes Campaign was the toughest. The cold? I
was a headquarters commandant during the
Ardennes Campaign. It was cold and the Germans had
come in there with everything they had and they
were scattered all over the countryside in
American uniforms. They were specially trained
people and it was hard to identify them and we had to
be extra cautious. It was hard to get supplies up,
and the weather was so bad we couldn't get any air
support. In fact, we were there from the afternoon
of the 19th of December until the 24th before I ever
saw an American bomber. And on Christmas Eve day,
we counted about a thousand American bombers that
came by. Of course, the Germans shot a lot of them
down, too. But then we lost an attack right after
these bombers did their dirty work. They hit some
of these German tanks and knocked them out that we
were being held up by. So we made pretty good
progress and went on up to Banau and Harzay and
Frankenschamps. And they pulled our division out
if we got to Frankenschamps, which is just across
the secret line. We made pretty good progress
there. But that was the roughest. Yes, it was the
roughest. We lost a lot of people. It was day and
night operation. And the Germans still had some
pretty good bombing support along in that area.
And they came in at low altitude. And this was the
first time we ever saw any jets, incidentally.
They sent in these jets at low altitude. You mean
262. Yeah. They come scooting over those hills and
drop right down on top of you. Drop a few bombs and
you never get a chance to see them, really. And we
lost a lot of people, mostly by getting minor
wounds and freezing to death going into the shop.
We lost lots of guys. Do you think maybe that the
American Army was not prepared for that winter
campaign? No, I think we were pretty well
prepared. We were actually better prepared than
the Germans. I'm talking about clothing-wise?
Oh, yes. Yeah, we ran short on some clothing, those
shoe packs, for instance. I'm just wondering if
most American soldiers really had been trained,
though, for extreme winter warfare. Not if they
had. I know I was confused about it, and I was
supposed to be smarter than they were, because I
was older. Well, maybe if you'd been from
Minnesota, you would have known. Yeah. We had a lot
of guys from the North, incidentally, in our
division. That should have been help. No, I
learned right away not to ever take my clothes off,
except often enough to change my socks and get my
feet tied. My dad was a medical officer, and he said
that the foot problems were the worst in the
Ardennes. Yeah, lots of guys with feet and ears
broke.
I found lots of guys laying out there that didn't
have anything to wear but a bullet hole through the
shoulder. That's all. Now, there wouldn't be
enough to kill a guy unless he'd bleed to death, but
he was just stiff as a poker because he broke and
went in shock, I guess. We found others that were
cut half in two and picked up by the aid men and
carried back and patched up in pretty good shape.
Medical services were outstanding. This
hospital that I was in, boy, they operated on guys
up there that I didn't see how they could operate.
Cut all the pieces, shell fragments, had feet
blown off by those damn shoe mines, bayoneted by
the Krauts, head patching, guts up. sew them
together and put them out there in pretty good
shape. Let's go on to the A&M stuff now. You came to
A&M in September of 46? September of 45. As
Veterans Advisor. How did you wind up getting this
job?
Well, I
had applied for a job with the Veterans
Administration. on the advice of a counselor in
Fort Sam Houston Separation Center. They had a
veteran administration man there, and they
wanted a college graduate who had taught school
and been in service to work with them in their
counseling program in Waco. And I had applied, but
they couldn't give me a decision until my term of
leave was up, which was the 4th of November. And
about the 20th of August, a man named Heaton, who
was registrar, called me. And I never heard of him
before, but he called me and said, I got your name
from E.E. McQuillan, who is director of the Former
Student Association. And we're looking for a man,
and Mr. Gilchrist told me to find somebody if I
could. And he wants a man that's an A&M graduate,
preferably. One that's been in the Army. One
that's been a schoolteacher. or taught school
somewhere. And he said, he called me on Saturday
afternoon and said, I'd like to talk to you. And I
said, well, when? What do you want me to do? He said,
won't you be a veteran's advisor? But he didn't
know what that meant. So I came down on Sunday
afternoon, right after I got out of church,
Sunday, I came with my wife and we talked to the
brand new dean of men who had just reported, had
gotten out of the Army at Fort Hood, came down here
to be dean of men. He can talk to me about it now. Who
was Dean of Men at this time? Rollins. Joe Rollins?
Joe Rollins. J.W. Joe Rollins. And they told me
everything they knew about the job. Said, Mr.
Gilchrist wanted me to come here and help the
veterans. That's really what he meant. I said,
well, help them do what? He said, get in school, get
the money, find a place to live, get some
recreation for the families, a place for the kids
to live.
And help them with the GI Bill. if I got any
hospitalization problems, disability cases, or
insurance problems. I want you to know, we want you
to know everything about the GI Bill. So I said,
okay, when do you want me to go to work? I didn't
really want to go to work first September because I
was tired. I hadn't gotten completely over my last
campaign. And incidentally, that last campaign
wasn't easy. Up into the, across the Elk River.
Because we captured over, a million prisoners,
and we liberated over two million concentration
camp prisoners in our core area alone. And I was
responsible for feeding these people and taking
care of them the best we could. Until the
relocation people. That's right. Initially. So
anyhow, I went to the Veterans Administration
headquarters in Waco and spent A day in the
insurance division, a day in the education
division, a day in the loan division. I learned all
I could about D.W. I came here on the first day of
September.
I went to work, and in the meantime, I talked to the
president, and he told me what he'd like for me to
do, as best he knew. Who was the president? Mr. Gibb
Gilchrist. Okay. I may ask you in a minute what your
impression of him was. Go on. So I went to work, and
they wanted me to live on campus so I'd be
accessible to the students. They had an old house
down there, and I called my wife on the telephone,
told her to come home and get the stuff out of the
storage. We had the storage in Waco during the war.
And she brought it down, and we opened up a house
down there on, right where the new athletic
dormitory is. It was old Clark Street then. I guess
it still is. had a little house there, and we lived
in it. Then we moved down here to the one back of
Grand Hall, which was the Williams house. There's
none here anymore, but I was a, I was a vintage
writer. We had 900 students, about 900 out of GI
Bill, and they were, most of them knew a little bit
about it, not much, but I set up an office in the
registrar's office because they didn't have any
other place for me. And there was a room about to, 20
by 20, and I would see these veterans about 20 at a
time, had 20 chariots in there, and I'd see them,
tell them all I knew about the G.I. Bill, and then
hand them a form and tell them, fill them out and let
me see them, because I wanted them correctly
filled out before we sent them in. And I told them
what their rights and privileges were and what
they'd get and what school would do, and Mr.
Gilchrist had raised for a little loan fund so
these guys that got out of the service without any
money wouldn't have to wait, because we knew it
might be 30 to 90 days before these guys got paid.
And as it turned out, this was about right. So
anyhow, we got along pretty good there. And about
the time I was getting cleared up a little bit, a new
semester started in October, and we got in a whole
raft of guys. Remember how many? About 2,000. new
fittings. And then in February, we jumped up to
about 6,000.
And one girl and I were trying to see them and tell
them what they had to do. We remember we grabbed
some poop sheets and said, this covers part of it,
but I'll have to explain part of it. So I found a room
where I could get, instead of 20 at the time, I got
about 50, 75 in. And had a place for them to ride.
And then when they'd fill all these things out,
this girl and I would check them at night and see if
they were completely accurate and then mail them
in that same night so they'd get them in Waco. And
incidentally, the veterinary administration
had a man, a full-time man here on the campus too,
helping me with some of these problems. I didn't
know that. Mostly, he was helping mostly disabled
cases. Can you remember what his name was? Oh,
yeah, he died about a year ago.
I'll check that for you. Go ahead. No, I can't
remember. Anyhow, we gave him an office over there
in Hart Hall, a pair of those rooms that joined. And
he, see, at that time, we were issuing books and
supplies and everything, too, and he helped me
with some of the minute details. Gee, that feels a
little different then than it is now. Yes, quite a
bit. So then I had to go out, after I got all that
done, I had to see if I could find someplace, and we
did. We set up, with permission and help of the
dining hall people, Jay Penderson was in charge of
the dining hall at Speedy Hall. We set up a portion
of that second floor there as a sort of a lounge,
recreation, education area for the families of
these veterans. We had converted Walton Hall and
Hart Hall into apartments. And we took two other
dormitories down there and just let a man and his
wife live in a room. Now, let me get this again. I
wasn't aware of that. Hart Hall was in Walton. Hart
Hall. We took two rooms. You see those rooms in
Hart? They have a bathroom in between. They used to
live in them. Yeah. Yeah. Well, then we made an
apartment out of that. Now, what year was this?
19... Well, we started this operation. It took us
about a year to get it all done. We started this
operation shortly after I came here. Mr. Spence
and Calvin Moore. And I collaborated with Mr.
Gilchrist on this and we got these things all
converted and put in a little stove and a little
refrigerator and still use the bunk beds. Yeah.
And had a desk for the guy. So they had really kind of
a living room kitchen affair and then a bedroom on
the other side. That's what he meant to. How long
did that go on? That went on about two years and then
we got We, incidentally, we started working right
away to get some of those old trailers, what they
call mobile homes that the Air Force people used to
use. We put some of them right down there where
Coliseum is now. Then on down toward the south,
right next to the American Legion House on both
sides of the street, we put those prefabs in. We had
about 200 of those. Now we took, we got about 12, 13
of those old Navy houses from Orange, Texas.
Where'd you get the College View? We got them from
Air Force Base down there. Victoria? Victoria.
Foster Field. Foster? Mm-hmm. Okay. And they
moved them up here and installed them with
whatever pipes and fixes they could get, and we
started renting them as fast as we could. And you
began to clear the people out. We began to need them
for single people. We didn't need them because we
had three men in all the rooms. This wasn't good,
because they're not built for three. But we set up
this place, and we got somebody, and I don't even
remember now, I think, the extension service
managed to get some
sewing machines. And they had classes for these
wives to teach them how to sew and how to pick out
curtain materials and how to cook and cut meat and
buy meat and stuff like that. They had a few pool
tables and a few ping pong tables. put down in that
old dining hall, second floor there. And
we built little drying yards in the back of the
apartments where the kids' diapers could be dried
and stuff like that. What were your major problems
now during this, other than innovating a program
that had never been tried before? Do you think
there were any major problems that you had? Yes,
there were some problems because... That you
can't talk about? A good many of these people were
more crowded in, even though they'd been crowded
up during the war, they were crowded in in short
quarters. And those people that lived off the
campus, remember now, we had 6,000 people here,
and a high percentage of these people were
married, had a wife at least, and most of them had
children. When they moved off the campus, they
lived in chicken coops and every kind of thing.
They didn't like this, and they weren't happy. And
we were, too, because a lot of them weren't even
sanitary. And we had to fight their battles,
incidentally, with the rent control people,
because they were making these guys pay under the
table. They'd come tell me, and I'd have to go to the
rent control people and say, I know this is a fact,
and I'm willing to go to court and testify. I see.
Because we felt like we ought to represent these
kids. These were men, really. And some of the wives
were unhappy because they didn't have any
recreational facilities. See, we didn't even let
them go swimming at the swimming pool and stuff
like that. The only thing we had was an old campus
picture show at Guyon Hall. And we didn't even
have, we had three bowling alleys, one under four
in a YMCA base. And this is not many. We had a few ping
pong tables. So they didn't have any place for
recreation and entertainment. And the
university hadn't decided for sure who could go to
football games. And all these guys weren't
carrying their wires, of course, and stuff like
that. They finally did, but we had to go represent
them, and we want these Y's in at the same rate the
students get in, because these guys can't afford
commercial rates. And they got so many people
going to basketball games, and we alternated. Up
to a certain letter would go one time, and the next
time the other group would go, so you couldn't see
but half the ball games. And they were better
pleased, and those that didn't, have places to
cook, to go in the dining hall and eat, which was
new. We never had let this happen before. And some
of the ladies wanted to go to school then. And they
still had a policy against ladies going to school
except in summertime. They'd let them go in
summer, but they would let them go in the fall and
spring. Couldn't go to the college hospital. And
this was a problem because with 6,000 new families
in town, The medical staff here in Brown couldn't
take care of them. And there was no real system for
hiring these girls to work at that time. And
incidentally, this girl who worked for me, whose
husband was a student, incidentally, she had a
master's degree from Rice. But her husband was
tech and civil engineering and was a bomber pilot.
And she knew about all this stuff. So she and I
organized it first. program for helping these
girls find jobs. So if a veteran's wife, and we
specified a veteran's wife because we're not
supposed to be the rest of them married. So they'd
come and ask me if I knew where to get a job. Well, I
contacted all the officers on the campus and told
them we had a veteran. She said, please let me know.
And we hired lots of girls through our office, this
little girl and I. All we'd do is find out where the
jobs were and send them to them. So this was kind of a
placement office on the side then? Sort of, yeah.
Any student that didn't have enough money come in
and say, sir, I got a grocery bill. I got a child in
the hospital. What can I do? Well, so I'd go to Mr.
Gilchrist again and say, Mr. Gilchrist, these
guys don't have enough money to do this. So he set
aside a certain amount of money in the fiscal
office. I don't know where he got the money. I guess
it was out of one of these slush funds they had. And
he told me that we could loan up to $100 for 90 days,
for instance. So I just had a guy sign a bill for
them. I promised to pay within 90 days. No
interest. And we collected most of it. We didn't
lose very much. We didn't lose much. We didn't lose
many of them. What do you think of the veterans as a
whole coming back? You think they were pretty good
students as a whole? Those students, yeah. That
was the best thing that ever happened with Texas
A&M, in my opinion, because they raised the
scholastic standards. And I know this because of
cadets as a whole. They didn't want those veterans
over here because, first place, they weren't in
uniform. Then many didn't go back into the Corps
when they came back? Not very many went back in.
Few. A few. Not very many. You see, you got to
remember, too, that a hell of a lot of these guys
were officers already. And a lot of them majors and
lieutenant colonels. One hell of a lot of
lieutenants and captains, but there were a lot of
majors and lieutenant colonels. And a few chicken
colonels. I thought maybe you might have a few of
the enlisted types that came back and wanted a
commission. They were. They were. And I remember
the 1st Sergeant of F Company. I remember the 1st
Sergeant of B Company. They were enlisted men. One
of them was a Marine incidentally. And they got
commissions. We had one company of nothing but
veterans. One full company. Everybody in there
was a veteran. And they did a real good job. They
didn't try to throw their weight around or
anything. In other words, you don't think that the
veterans coming back were not any rougher than
those that were here then? No. Those, in fact, they
were better. In fact, a lot of the things that we
found out were going on in the corps that we didn't
like, information was given to us by veterans. A
lot of them were ex-Aggies, incidentally, that
had been here before the war and came back. I said,
they're running it. They're brutalizing the
thing. Now, we don't want our name mentioned,
please. I said, no, anything you tell me, then go
beyond. I never even told Mr. Gilkish where I got my
information. Then some of the hazing that went on
was really not caused by the veterans coming back.
No. No, most of it was caused by the new students
coming in. That's right. That's something I
didn't know. Yeah. When I went to work at A&M, they
were about I don't remember exactly now, but there
was approximately 1,900 freshman cadets and
about 100 upperclassmen cadets. Now, a lot of
these upperclassmen were veterinarians who had
been exempt, see, on account of the practice that
they were getting into. And a few of these guys were
veterans who had come back. I remember one guy that
had a whole hand shot off, and they let him be a
cadet. And he was a junior. He didn't cause any
trouble, but all these sophomores were the ones he
caused trouble. And there weren't very many of
them. But they were not veterans. No, they were
flailing and living there outside of those poor
freshmen. Is this the time that they moved the
freshmen to? Well, they did that later. I don't
remember because, see, they were still operating
the base out there. And I think it was about 19-
I think it was about 1948 or 49 that they opened that
base out there for those freshmen. I'm not sure
about that date, but it was, I know I served, I
served, well, let me go on and get this thing, this
date thing may fall into place here, but I, no, I
thought the veterans on the whole, now they were,
they caused some problems because they, for
instance, they had what they called a revolt
meeting over there one night, and I went to the
president of this Veterans Association and told
him that I was working for the university and I'm
the veterans advisor and I want to know what you all
are going to do. He said, it's not any of your
business. I said, it sure is. Anything you do on
this campus is none of my business. Now I want to
know what you're going to discuss. So he said,
we're going to protest. What are you going to
protest? So I said, I'm coming. I'm coming to the
meeting. And I was. I went over and sat on the front
row where he couldn't miss seeing me. But I told him
before the meeting started that I wanted to
reserve the right to speak for the university if
they're going to have a revolt meeting. But I
didn't want him to stand up there and tell them much
stuff that wasn't so, and have these umpteen-up
thousand guys go away unhappy. Now, they were
protesting. Here's what some of them did. I'll
show you how they did. Now, they didn't do much
thinking. They didn't want three guys in a room.
They said the food was too high. I think the food was
about $20, $25 a month, maybe $30. Room rent was $5 a
month. Hospital fee was $5 a semester. They didn't
have any parking lots. What they did have was just
dirt, and a few, one or two, had gravel on them. When
they'd get bogged down, it was aggravated. And a
lot of these veterans had cars, no parking places.
Nobody did. Professors didn't even have a good
place.
One of the things that they want to do is demand that
they eliminate English 101 and 102. It's limited.
Now, these were absurdities, of course. They had
justifiable reasons in their own opinions why
they ought to just delete limited stuff. Well,
they went through all this stuff, and they told a
lot of things that weren't so, and so this
president of the association wasn't going to let
me speak, and so I held up my hand and walked up on the
stage and said, I'd like to speak for the
university, because there have been some things
said here which are not completely correct.
I said, I'll take them one by one in order that they
were introduced here. You people voted on these
things. You want to delete English. A&M couldn't
delete English if they wanted to. They wouldn't
want to in the first place, but they couldn't if
they wanted to because the Southern Association
would bar us. They'd discredit us completely.
Now, it's just that simple. Now, A&M's not going to
eliminate English 101 and 102. And I don't have to
ask the president about that. Now, you talked
about, you talked about you know, we want two guys
in the room. I said, now which, if y'all really want
this, and you voted it, I wanted 30 of you to come in
tomorrow and resign. Because it's just that
simple. There's no other place to go. And if we're
going to have two in a room, that's a third of all the
guys here got to leave. Now which third wants to go?
So they hadn't thought about that. So then, Some
guy up in the balcony, he jumped up, and he had his
wife with him. And he said, I think we ought to
reconsider everything we voted on, because I
didn't think about that. I'm glad Mr. Zinn came
here, and I didn't think about that. And I said,
well, I'm going to go a little further.
We have to know how many people are coming down. And
that's the reason we required all of you to live in
the dormitory to eat there. We have to know how
many. And if we don't, and half of you don't go,
we've got to go up on the food prices. We've got to
double it. And this is prohibitive to a lot of
people. Sure, we can go up on the real rent to
attend, but Mr. Yerkes doesn't want to go up on it.
He wants to let it stay as low as possible so the poor
guy can go to school, too. And I don't want to talk to
him about all these things. And we're not being
arbitrary about it. And I'm not talking about what
was then. I'm talking about the university now.
We've got to try to run a sensible educational
institution. This is not a madhouse. So they
called back, and they stayed up there until about
midnight. And they said, we'd like to forget about
all this revolting business. Now, they did have
some later ones, too. And I went to several of them
where they'd have some. quietly organized over
there. Do you remember what the approximate date
of this meeting was? What year? Yes, that was
in—one
of these meetings was in the spring of 1946,
pretty soon after this program got full flushed.
And then one of them was in October of 1946, and we
had another one in 1947 by October.
They even had signs trying to get people to block
out the dining hall because they were charging too
much. I don't remember which one this was, but I
went down there and talked to them. I said, well, if
that's what you want to do, go ahead. But you're not
hurting anybody. But where are you going to eat? I
bet you weren't having that in cafes in Bradley
County. They couldn't eat there as cheaply
anyway. No, they couldn't. So they got a
committee. I said, get your committee. So they got
a committee, and the committee went with the,
assistant to the patroller, and I can't even think
his name now. He was athletic director as well.
I can't even. Anyhow, he was business manager at
Charlton State before he came here. He went with
this committee to about five or six good
universities and ate, and they measured how many
ounces of potatoes for 20 cents, and how many
ounces for a dime, and how many ounces of steak did
they get. And they came back and they said, we're
sorry, we got a better deal than any university in
the state. They called off the dogs and they
publicized this in the battalion and the students
quit yelling about it. This is sort of a mob thing. A
lot of these guys hadn't been to college, don't
forget that. It's kind of funny, it seems like we go
through this every ten years or so. That's right.
They went through it while I was here. Yeah. The
students studied real well, and I made good
grades, and they went around the clock. They went
to school until they graduated, and most of them
graduated. And most of them had a real good
attitude. I never had very many guys come in my
office the whole time I worked as Veterans
Advisor. It was not appreciated as what the
government and the college did for their
education. Now, they knew that Some things maybe
could have been done and should have been that we
weren't doing. But I had lots of them come by and
make suggestions about what to do. Well, if it's
reasonable, we appointed a committee. If they
didn't want to do it themselves, we appointed a
committee out of the dean's office and told them to
study it and bring it back. And from this, then, we
appointed a committee of seven, I think. and sent
them to Oklahoma State University, I believe.
Maybe Norman. Yeah, Oklahoma University at
Norman. We paid the expenses and sent them up there
to stay a week to study what they did up there in the
way of student government. We sent one staff
representative with them. And they came back and
they wrote up all of their suggestions there. And
we looked it all over and had a lot of other students
talk about it, think about it, had a mass meeting
and invite anybody who wanted to come. We
discussed this and organized the first student
council. And up until that time, all of the
decisions had been made by the core staff about
student life problems. And I worked with the
veterans and assistant commander worked with the
cadets and we finally got this all nailed down to
the point where we had this council i said i think
the position of either seven and nine and i forgot
anyhow i want to say nine i think there are four
cadets and four veterans and one non-veteran
non-cadet and that poor guy had to make all
decisions because everything came up the cadets
voted in blocks I didn't vote in block, and this guy
had to make a decision. I said, that's wrong. The
first guy that did this was a guy named Lehamadou, a
Frenchman from Louisiana. He came to me and said,
Mr. Denton, I'm making all the college decisions.
Every vote we've had except one has been split, and
I've had to make a deciding vote. So we changed
that.
We changed it, and it's got to be a majority vote. No
split decision possible at all. And then the next
year after that, we recommended to the dean. And in
the meantime, I had gone to the commandant's
office as assistant commandant to try to help iron
out some of the problems